# OpenITS

An open source Intelligent Tutoring System using Bayesian Knowledge Tracing implemented in ReactJS and using Firebase
for logging.

## Installation:

The installation assumes that you already have git and npm installed. If you do not have either, please install those
first.

```
git clone https://github.com/CAHLR/OpenITS
cd OpenITS
npm install
npm run generate
```

After compiling, the project will display in a new web browser tab at adress `localhost:1337`.

`npm run generate` is used to autogenerate index files (the preferred way of running locally)

(`npm start` can be used if no new problems/steps/pathways have been added.)

Create a file `/src/ProblemLogic/credentials.js`. This file need not have functional credentials unless logging is
turned on (it is off by default) It must exist for the project to compile and be in the following format:

```javascript
const config = {};
export default config;
```

### Firebase Setup

OpenITS uses Firebase for data logging purposes.

1. Navigate to the Firebase [website](https://console.firebase.google.com/)
2. Add new project. Configure it as you wish (the options are not important for setup)
3. Click on Database and then create database. Start in test mode, leave the cloud location as is
4. Click `start collection` and name it `problemSubmissions`. Add a temporary first document for now.
5. Click on Project settings --> service accounts. Generate a new `Node.js` private key.
6. Put that private key in the below format in `/src/config/service-account-credentials.json`
7. Click on Project settings --> general. Copy SDK Setup & Configuration --> Config
8. Put configuration in `src/config/firebaseConfig.js`

## Features:

1) Scaffolding/hint system - modularize the type of help
2) Adaptive item selection - Pick items to master weakest skills (isolate skills to master individually)
3) Centralized skill model - `src/ProblemPool/skillMode.js`
4) Data logging/collection - Based off of the Cognitive Tutor KDD dataset.
5) User login/registration - Cookie cache based

See the changelog for a more detailed feature list

## Technologies Used

* Frontend: ReactJS
  * Theme: Material UI
  * Database: Firebase (Cloud Firestore)
  * Deployment: TBD
* Offline Computation/Iteration:
  * Python (dAFM Machine Learning algorithm)

# Project Structure:

Code for this project is located in the `src` directory.

## src

- `App.css`: Top level style sheet, contains colors for headers/logo
- `App.js`: Top level script, generates cookie, firebase object. Sets up the context based on the userID
- `index.js`: Renders `App.js`

## BKT

- `BKTBrains.js`: Contains `update` function that implements the standard BKT update algorithm.

## ProblemLayout

- `HintSystem.js`: Expandable panel component to display all the hints.

- `HintTextbox.js`: Textbox for scaffold types of hints with answers.

- `Problem.js`: The "problem" component created in App.js. The component is initailized with a "problem" object as one
  of its props. It then creates a series of "ProblemCards" in `const parts` (currently keys for ProblemCard components
  are random values, should be UUIDs in the future).

  The `answerMade` function is passed to each ProblemCard component and is called whenever an answer is submitted to a
  ProblemCard. This enables the Problem component to update the knowledge component variables after each answer and
  transition to the next problem after all answers are correct.

- `ProblemCard.js`: This component displays an individual card, updates the input text field to display the result of an
  answer attempt, and calls the `Problem.js`  `answerMade` function when the submit button is pressed.

These two files heavily rely on Material-UI syntax (eg. all the `useStyles` and `classes` references). Check their
website for more info on this syntax.

- `problemCardStyles.js`: This file contains all the styles for `ProblemCard.js`

## ProblemLogic

- `checkAnswer.js`: Function to check answers. 3 different types of answers are supported: Algebraic, String, Numeric.
  Algebraic will simplify numeric expressions, numeric checks numeric equivalence, string requires answers to exactly
  match.

- `Platform.js`: Creates top "AppBar" and presents the first "problem" (everything under the app bar is part of the
  problem component). Also imports all of the problem files and stores them in `const problemIndex`. The
  function `nextProblem` is used to determine the next problem to be displayed.

- `Firebase.js`: Class with methods to read/write to Firebase (Cloud Firestore).

- `renderText.js`: Method called to render text. Fills in dynamic text generation.

## ProblemPool [Configurable]

- Each problem is contained in its own folder.
- Problems can contain steps which are contained in their own subfolder
- Steps can contain hints which are stored as pathways in the `tutoring` subfolder
- Files ending in `-index.js` and `problemPool.js` are autogenerated using indexGenerator.js

### Markdown Support

- All `\` must be escaped as `\\` because values are strings
- Wrap Latex in `$` for inline LaTeX
- Newlines can be created with `\n`, escaped as `\\n`

## Config [Configurable]

- `config.js`: Central place where options can be configured. Also includes function to get the treatment id given a
  userID, imports all appropriate treatments (Ex. BKTParam, HintPathway, Adaptive Problem selection heuristic)

- `./bktParams/bktParams.js`: Contains the mastery, transit, slip, and guess probabilities for each skill. Used in the
  BKT model.
- `./problemSelectHeuristics/problemSelectHeuristic.js`: This file contains a configurable heuristic for adaptive
  problem selection. The default heuristic iterates across the problems and chooses the one with the lowest average
  probability of mastery across all of its knowledge components, but this can be changed to any heuristic.

- `skillModel.js`: This file contains all the problem to skill mappings. The format is as follows:

```javascript
    problemID1a: []
    problemID1b: []
    ...
    problemID1z: []
    
    problemID9a: []
    ...
    problemID9z: []
    ...
```

- `credentials.js`: File which contains the credentials to authenticate to Firebase. (Note: this file is ignored in the
  gitignore by default to prevent API key leaks.)

- `algebraCheck.js`: Config file for algebraic answer checks. Supported syntax can be
  found [here](https://www.npmjs.com/package/expr-eval)

---

## Listeners

### Mouse Logging

* Size of screen is the size of the scrollable browser canvas
* Wrap `<Platform />` with the following in `App.js`

```javascript
<ReactCursorPosition onPositionChanged={(data) => {
  if (logMouseData) {
    this.firebase.mouseLog(data);
  }
}}>
  <Platform props_here/>
  <ReactCursorPosition/>
  }}>

```

### Adding Listeners

1. Install the React component for the listener.
2. Wrap the Platform component with the listener. The listener must take a prop that is a function to log data that it
   receives.
3. In `/ProblemLogic/Firebase.js` add a new function to log the new type of data. Create a new collection for this
   listener logs.
4. Configure buffer size and granularity of logging

# Problem Pool

## Adding a problem to the Problem Pool

1. Create a folder in `/src/ProblemPool/` for that problem (Ex. `circle1`)
2. Create a js file for that problem id (Ex. `circle1.js`)
3. Create a folder called `figures` if the problem has figures
4. Create a subfolder for each problem step (Ex. `circle1a`, `circle1b`)
5. In each subfolder, create a js file for that problem step id (Ex. `circle1a.js`)
6. Create a subfolder within the subfolder called `tutoring`
7. Place each hint pathway within the folder (Ex. `circle1aDefaultPathway.js`)
8. In `/src/config/skillModel.js`, tag each problem with the appropriate skills
9. If the skill does not already exist in `bktParams`, add its BKT parameters in the appropriate `config/bktParams`
   files

### Types of problems

* `TextBox` : Box for student to enter answer. 3 different types of answers are supported: Algebraic, String, Numeric.
  Algebraic will simplify numeric expressions, numeric checks numeric equivalence, string requires answers to exactly
  match.
* `MultipleChoice`: List choices as `choices: ["Choice A", "Choice B"]`, must have `answerType: "string"`

### Example Directory Structure

```
ProblemPool
│   problemPool.js (Autogenerated)
└───circle1
│   │   circle1.js
│   │   circle1-index.js (Autogenerated)
│   └───steps
│       └───circle1a
│       │   │   circle1a.js
│       │   │   circle1a-index.js (Autogenerated)
│       │   └───tutoring
│       │       │   circle1aDefaultPathway.js
│       │          
│       └───circle1b
│           │   circle1b.js
│           │   circle1b-index.js (Autogenerated)
│           └───tutoring
│               │   circle1bDefaultPathway.js
│   
└───slope1
    │   ...
```

### Example Problem File

```js
import steps from './circle1-index.js'

const problem = {
  id: 'circle1',
  title: "Buying a Big Rug",
  body: "Bob wants to surprise Alice by buying a new rug for their living room. Their living room is 28 feet wide and 20 feet long. To further surprise Alice, Bob wants to buy the biggest circular rug that will fit.",
  steps: steps
};
export { problem };
```

### Example Step File

```js
import hints from './circle1a-index.js';

const step = {
  id: 'circle1a',
  stepTitle: "1. Maximum Radius",
  stepBody: "What is the maximum radius of a circular rug that will fit in the room?",
  stepAnswer: ["10"],
  problemType: "TextBox",
  answerType: "numeric",
  hints: hints
}

export { step };
```

### Example Hint Pathway File

```js
var hints = [
    {
      id: 'circle1a-h1',
      title: "Size of the room",
      text: "Consider the shape of the room and the limitations this has on the radius of the rug.",
      type: "hint",
      dependencies: []
    },
    {
      id: 'circle1a-h2',
      title: "Constricting dimension",
      text: "The length (20ft) creates limitations on the size of the circle. What is the maximum diameter that the circle can be?",
      hintAnswer: ["20"],
      problemType: "TextBox",
      answerType: "numeric",
      type: "scaffold",
      dependencies: [0]
    },
    {
      id: 'circle1a-h3',
      title: "Solution",
      text: "Recall that the radius is half the diameter, so $r = \\frac{d}{2} = 10$",
      type: "solution",
      dependencies: [1]
    }
]

export {hints};
```

### Using HTML/React Objects as body text for LaTeX

```js
import hints from './pythag1a-index.js';
import React from 'react';
import { InlineMath } from 'react-katex';

const step = {
  id: 'pythag1a',
  stepTitle: "1. Vertical Component",
  stepBody: <div>
    What is the net force <InlineMath math={"\\sum F_y "} />, in the vertical direction?
  </div>,
  stepAnswer: ["0.10"],
  problemType: "TextBox",
  answerType: "algebra",
  hints: hints
}

export { step };
```

### Using OpenITS custom markdown parser for images and LaTeX

```js
import steps from './pythag1-index.js'

const problem = {
  id: 'pythag1', //Substeps will be in the form problem.id + 'a' and so on
  title: "Car Forces",
  body: "A %CAR% experiences three horizontal forces of -3.10N, 1.70N and -4.00N. It also experiences three vertical forces of -4.30N, 0.20N and 4.20N. \\n Round all answers to the hundredths place. \\n##triangle.png## ",
  steps: steps
};
export { problem };
```

## Creating Lesson Plans

* Create a lesson plan by making a new item in `config/lessonPlans.js`
* Each lesson plan has learning objectives which you can also list the target mastery level
* Lesson plans can have multiple learning objectives (for cumulative review)
* Users select a lesson upon visiting the site

```js
{
  id: "lesson1",
  name: "Lesson 1",
  topics: "Pythagorean Theorem",
  allowRecycle: true,
  learningObjectives: {
    pythagorean: 0.95
  }
}
```

AB testing:
OpenITS was designed with the research case in mind and thus supports AB testing for many features. The benefit of the
open source nature of the platform allows researchers to insert AB testing logic into any part of the platform they
would like. To show that this is possible, we have included several examples of how one could use AB testing. One
example is to include different heuristics for problem selection. One heuristic is to choose problems with a knowledge
component that is lowest (meaning the student is weakest in this subject) to round out the student's knowledge. Another
heuristic is to choose problems with a knowledge ocmponent that is highest (meaning the student is strongest in this
subject) to fully master a skill before moving on to another. There is control logic detailed in App.js to select
between the two heuristics depending on a randomly generated userID. The userID is recorded in data logs so the
treatment can be inferred from this. Other examples of AB testing included are different BKT parameter files and
different default hint pathways.

Details of KC model Description (how it works/format)
Knowledge components (KCs) are assigned at the step level in the file skillModel.js. A KC is defined as a string that
contains corresponding BKT parameters (existing in bktParams.js file) including probMastery, probTransit, probSlip, and
probGuess. Each step can be assigned any number of KCs in an array format (['kc1', 'kc2', ... 'kcN']). skillModel.js
stores a mapping between step IDs and the KCs array as a JSON object.

bktParams.js contains a JSON object that maps KCs to their corresponding BKT parameters (probMastery, probTransit,
probSlip, and probGuess). These values are typically empirically determined and can be AB tested (see above).

What the format of a section looks like Problems are decomposed into steps. Problems do not contain an answer field (
problems without real steps are formatted as a problem with only one step). Steps can be one of 2 answer types: textbox
or multiple choice. Steps can contain help items which can be toggled to be shown by clicking a raised hand icon on each
step. There are two possible help items: hints which are purely textual and have no user input, or scaffolds which
contain user input (again, either textbox or multiple choice). Scaffolds can contain help items themselves, except this
is the deepest level of content (the scaffolds's scaffolds cannot contain any help items).

BKT algorithm selecting problems.

OpenITS uses Bayesian Knowledge Tracing to determine model mastery based on an input. (If you need to describe how BKT
works, just copy the descriptions of the 4 model parameters used in BKT from wikipedia along with equations a thru d.
The implementation is exactly identical to wikpedia, nothing special here)

Problem selection is determined using a heuristic which is fully configurable and can be AB tested (see above). For the
purposes of this paper, let us assume we are using a heuristic that selects problems prioritizing the lowest mastery
first. Upon receiving user input, the standard BKT update equations will update the predicted user's mastery. Upon
completion of a problem, OpenITS will iterate through all problems and compute each problem's mastery level(note:
mastery level is computed at the problem granularity not the step) for the user. This is done by multiplying all the
mastery priors for all KCs of that step (as labelled by the researcher in the KC model) and then multiplying all step
masteries together to get the problem mastery. The heuristic will be applied, which in this case is lowest mastery
first, so the problem with the lowest mastery is selected to give to the user. In the case that the first problem is
being chosen in the session, equation a from the BKT model is used and the default probMastery is considered the user's
mastery. Ties (of equal mastery) in the heuristic selection algorithm are broken by randomly choosing a problem.

